     This file quickly covers a few concerns over Origin's hiney-kicking
RPG (or disk swapping test of patience =^) Knights of Legend.

1. "I can't find the /CHARacter disk anywhere on asimov!"

    Of course you can't find any, maybe that'll teach 'ya to not copy
    the game. =^)  no no no...  KOL didn't come packaged with a /CHAR
    disk, you have to format your own.  Grab Copy II+ or whatever other
    (ProDOS) disk utility and format a volume (disk) named /CHAR
    You now have a KOL character disk.

2. "Where can I find the other three modules?"

     You can't ('aint this fun?)  "Analysis of market trends and
     software development demands" made the creation of the later
     modules infeasable at the time according to a letter I got from
     Origin.  They did keep our names & addresses in a "confidential
     KOL file" should they change their minds about the modules, but
     after some six years, I've yet to hear anything. =^)

3. "Magic System?  Spells?  How?"

      You thought Ultima V was cool?  Hold onto your shorts...
      (The following has been typed up from the manual without the
       permission of Origin Systems or KOL author Todd Mitchell Porter,
       hope they don't sue my ass.)
____________________

MAGIC (p71-76)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     Elven is the language of Ashtalarean magic, and all mages must
have at least a passing knowledge of this rich and beautiful tongue to
practice their craft.  For those who hope to achieve magical mastery,
a detailed description of Elven can be found on pages 129. [maybe I'll
type that up later -gtk] However, the information below will provide
enough information to get you started as a spellcaster.

CASTING SPELLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     Spells are cast by speaking a word of power.  Each magical word
consists of five or six parts, with each part describing a portion of
the spell's total effect.  The parts of a spell are always presented
in the following order:

          RACE + STAT + SEVERITY + RANGE (+ DURATION) + SUBCLASS


     The first syllable of the spell describes the RACE the mage
wants to affect.  In Elven, as in most languages, each race is
referred to differently:

          Human   = DAY        Elemental  = VON
          Elf     = AR         Giant      = KUM
          Dwarf   = TYA        Legendary  = VAR
          Kelder  = KEL        Undead     = VOR


     After the race comes the STAT affected.  There's no need to worry
about wether a spell affects a stat positively or negatively -- when
you cast a spell, you will be asked what effect you want it to have.

          Strength      = DAN        Fatigue          = TWE
          Quickness     = VA         Offecsive skill  = KUT
          Foresight     = DA         Defensive skill  = AND
          Intelligence  = VOR        Body             = NA


     Next, the mage specifies the SEVERITY of the spell, the amount of
power he's putting into it:

          Insignificant  = R        Great       = Y
          Moderate       = L        Trememdous  = F
          Serious        = W


     The RANGE of a spell can be either close or long.  "Close" means
the target is right beside the spellcaster -- close enough to touch.
"Long" range is anything beyond arm's reach.

          Close  = ON        Long  = YR


The spell's DURATION -- how long it lasts -- comes next.  A spell with
the shortest duration possible may just last a single combat round; a
spell with the longest duration may last through an entire combat
encounter.  Mages don't have to specify a duration for spells
affecting the Body or Fatigue stats -- such spells automatically
increase stats for an entire combat (or until the target is defeated!)

          Minimal  = A        Long     = O
          Short    = E        Longest  = U
          Medium   = I


     Finally, the mage specifies which SUBCLASS -- which specific
creature(s) -- he wants to affect.  In the case of Humans, Elves,
Dwarves, and Kelder, no subclass need be specified.  For these races,
simply end the spell with the suffix "TA."  All creatures of the race
specified at the beginning of the spell will be affected, regardless
of subclasses.  Spells aimed at creatures other than Humans, Elves,
Dwarves, and Kelder must be more specific.

ELEMENTALS
          Golem  = MU        Dijinn     = TI
          Sylph  = FE        Salamander = MI

GIANTS
          Goblin       = MU        Hill Giant  = A
          Orc          = FE        Ettin       = UA
          Hobgoblin    = TI        Ogre        = KE
          Great Orc    = MI        Stone Ogre  = AT
          Troll        = KO        Cyclops     = LO
          Cliff Troll  = RA        Mist Giant  = RI

LEGENDARY CREATURES
          Minotaur    = MU        Binderak   = KO
          Mock Thing  = FE        Sledge     = RA
          Lizarion    = TI        Mist Grub  = A
          Blom        = MI        Walbar     = UA

UNDEAD
          Gremlin  = MU        Zombie    = TI
          Ghoul    = FE        Skeleton  = MI

          Humans, Elves, Dwarves, Kelder  = TA

     Once you've created a spell, give it a name you'll remember
easily in the heat of battle.  A spell designed to hurt Orcs might be
called "Orc Killer."  One designed to heal Elves could be named "Elf
Restorer."
     Below, you'll find a few sample spells.  Using the lists above,
try to break these magical words down into their component parts.
Once you can do this, you'll be a mage worthy of respect anywhere in
Ashtalarea!  [and attain new levels of geekiness. =^)  -gtk]
     Examples:

     HURT ALL DWARVES SERIOUSLY AT CLOSE RANGE = TYANAWONTA

     HEAL AN ELF MODERATELY AT LONG RANGE = ARNALYRTA

     GREATLY INCREASE AN ORC'S FATIGUE AT LONG RANGE = KUMTWEYYRFE

     GREATLY INCREASE THE FORESIGHT OF A KELDEN AT LONG RANGE FOR
MEDIUM DURATION = KELDAYYRITA

     GREATLY DECREASE THE INTELLIGENCE OF A SKELETON AT LONG RANGE
FOR MINIMAL DURATION = VORVORWYRAMI

     TREMENDOUSLY HURT AN OGRE AT LONG RANGE = KUMNAFYRKE


LEARNING SPELLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     Training in the arts of magic can be found in a Magic Tower or
Shop.  There you will be offered the opportunity to select a spell
from the list known to the proprietor.  You may also be asked if you
wish to join the magical order to which he belongs.


MAGICAL ORDERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     Becoming a member of a magical order requires a substantial
expenditure of gold, usually on the order of 500 gold.  When you pay
this initiation fee, you will be given a talisman as a symbol of your
allegiance, which you must swear to wear at all times.  If you do not
wear this token, you wil not be recognized as a member of the order
and your powers will be limited
     As a member of a magical order, you can modify any spell in your
book of spells.  Note that modification is a thing not easily done.
You are essentially changing the basic formulae upon which the entire
enchantment is based -- almost like recreating the spell from scratch.
Once you join an order, the option to modify your spells will be made
available to you at shops or towers whose proprietors belong to the
same order.
     The various orders have different goals, different strengths and
different weaknesses.  For instance, some orders may be dedicated to
eliminating reptilian races and creatures, and will specialize in
spells that focus on this goal.  Make sure you choose an order whose
spells are in keeping with your objectives or you will find yourself
at a loss later in the game.


MODIFYING SPELLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     If you choose to modify the effects of any spell in your book, a
scroll will appear.  On the scroll, the spell will be broken down into
its individual components.  By modifying these components, you chance
what you spell can do.
     Once you have finished modifying the spell, select the U-TURN
icon.  A text message will ask if you want to save the modified spell
to your spell book.  The YES icon will save the spell -- if you have
enough gold and Adventure Points.
     For more information on the language and structures of magic, see
the appendix on the Elven language on page 129 of this book.


SELECTING SPELLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     When choosing your complement of spells, try to keep a few simple
guidelines in mind and you will get the most out of your mages.
     Remember that magical power has its price -- fatigue. You may be
tempted to go for ultra-powerful spells, but they will have limited
utility.  You will only be able to cast them once or twice before you
are exhausted.  Becaues the ability to use magic is limited in this
way, mages may want to wear light armor.  Heavy armor protects better,
but increased encumberance results in still more fatigue.
     Try to pick attack spells effective against as many different
creatures as you can.  If you have accepted a quest to take on
something that sound particularly nasty, it may be in your best
interest to construct a special-purpose spell designed to soften it up
for your fighters.

          [SCROLL icon]

     To see your lists of spells, select the SCROLL icon on the
Character Profile Screen.

     In the long run, you may be better off concentrating on weapons
mastery, but a little magic can go a long way in the early stages of
the game.  Get some magic as soon as you are able.
____________________

1996.7.11 gkomatsu@hawaii.edu
