THE BEGINNERS CAVE Author: Donald Brown

The Beginners Cave is an Eamon adventure written by Donald Brown and
publicly released probably in late 1979. The adventure is the first of
the Eamon series, Brown having included it on the original Eamon Master
Diskette along with the Main Hall, and serves both as an introduction to
the game for new players and as an easy means for beginner characters to
obtain some modest treasure and experience.

Brown developed The Beginners Cave alongside the original Eamon system
and released them together on the Eamon Master Diskette probably in the
latter part of 1979.


Premise

The Warlord has set up a simple adventure in a cave south of the Main
Hall for the purpose of giving new adventurers a chance to try out their
skills. The Warlord stocks the cave daily with monsters and treasure,
and has posted at its entrance a knight marshal, William Misslefire, to
ensure that only beginners armed with a single weapon venture inside.
You "borrow" a horse and, following several signs, make your way to the
Beginners Cave for your first adventure.


Walkthrough

The cave is a simple, easy outing for new adventurers: it consists
essentially of a single long tunnel flanked by various side-chambers and
a single hidden side-corridor, and is populated with easily-beatable
opponents and a few modest bits of treasure. Simply proceed south into
the cave and explore each side chamber as you come to it, attacking (or
befriending) the monsters you meet and gathering whatever artifacts you
find. It is recommended that you pick up the bottle of healing potion
which is located in the first western chamber, since if you find your
hardiness running low you can always restore it by drinking some. As you
continue south, there are two particular hazards to watch for: a chest
which when opened becomes a tentacled creature called a mimic, and a
book which when read will magically transform you into a small and very
short-lived fish. The mimic guards a treasure item so it's worth
triggering and slaying despite being one of the harder battles, and the
book counts as a treasure item. Where the tunnel becomes "very broken
and rough", look for a hidden side-tunnel to the east â€“ it leads to a
temple where you can free Cynthia, the kidnapped daughter of a Duke.
Cynthia will follow you, and if you return her safely to the Main Hall
you'll receive an added reward: a number of gold pieces equal to ten
times your charisma. The tunnel will ultimately turn east and descend,
and you'll emerge outside on the shore of an ocean cove where a pirate
is waiting by a boat. Attack and defeat the pirate and take his weapon,
the magical sword "Trollsfire". The sword features a special magical
attack invoked by saying its name (though since it's located at the end
of the cave there may be few opportunities to use it in the adventure).
You can also meet an amusing and sticky end if you read the book to
transform into a fish at the seashore, and though this doesn't add to
the game it is a very nice note to Donald Brown's care that he did
consider people trying this and added some appropriately special text.
Your work is done. Walk back through the cave the way you came and
return to the Main Hall.