Solution: SHERLOCK HOLMES: THE RIDDLE OF THE STOLEN CROWN JEWELS.

(c) 1992 Erik Futtrup, Denmark (email: futtrup@daimi.aau.dk)
     and Twan Lintermans, Holland


knock on door: u: n: take slipper {filled with tobacco}: take
pipe [1pts]: take newspaper [1pts]: {soundgag:take violin: play
violin}: give paper to holmes [5pts]: {soundgag:give violin to
holmes: holmes, play violin}: wait {you get clue paper}: read
clue: {1=Westminster Abbey; 2=Elisabeth+Mary Tudor's tomb;
3=Isaac Newton's tomb; 4=Henry V, read sign Jerusalem chamber!;
5=challenge Holmes}: wait {visitor leaves}: w: take lamp [3pts]:
take glass [1pts]: take ampoule: e: s: d: n: take matchbook
[1pts]: s: open door: e: show ampoule to holmes: take hat off:
take stethoscope {ss= short for stethoscope!} [1pts]: put ampoule
in hat: wear hat: turn lamp on: s: s: s: se: se: e: e: read sign:
{7 am - 6 pm}: wait until 7 am: e: s: se: take pacquet [1pts]:
take crayon [1pts]: nw: e: e: n: ne: n: x tomb: open pacquet:
take white: put it on tomb: rub it with crayon: take white
{notice it is stuck a bit}: w: s: w: x tomb: take brown: put it
on tomb: rub it with crayon: take it: s: open door: s: w: read
sign: {clue: henry V}: e: n: n: e: n: e: s: w: x henry's tomb:
take green paper: put it on henry's tomb: rub it with crayon:
take it: e: n: w: s: w: w: ne: n: n: n: ne: read sign: {8 am - 6
pm}: n: e: {gag: just wait and listen to the librarian}: be
quiet: read old book: open old book: read it {aha, remember the
sticking papers on the tombs!}: w: s: sw: s: s: s: sw: e: ne: e:
look: {candles+warmth, aha}: heat brown with candles: heat white
with candles: heat green with candles {....back of the paper,
so}: read back of white [5pts]: {clock=big ben; chop of
head=chamber of horrors}: read back of brown {london bridge;
number in bank= conquerer - fire of london}: read back of green
{Nelson's eye; the tower!}: w: sw: w: ne: w: negotiate with
salesman: again: buy telescope [1pts]:  {hint: Nelson's statue,
eye!} {RUBY}: s: e: d: drop white,green,brown: take oar [1pts]:
u: w: n: ne: n: {sound!}: wear ss: listen to girl {sound:
heartbeat is slow or fast, random! ; if fast then: open bag: open
brown bottle: take yellow pill: x brown bottle:
{decelerated....}: give yellow pill to girl [5pts] ; if slow
then: open bag: open blue bottle: take orange pill: x blue bottle
{accelerated....}: give orange pill to girl [5pts]}: take ss off:
ne: e: s: w: ask sherman about bird: sherman, give me bird:
[1pts]: e: n: w: s: s: sw: show ruby to bird: bird, get ruby: let
bird go: ne: n: n: e: s: w: ask sherman about bird [5pts;RUBY]:
e: n: w: w: n: w: n: {sound}: take tobacco [1pts]: put it in
pipe: open matchbook: take match: light match: light pipe with
match: drop lamp: drop match: n: [1pts]: w: holmes, give me
newspaper: light newspaper with pipe: take torch: light it with
newspaper [4pts]: x statues: x charles {chopping block}: take wax
head: melt it with torch: x gem: take emerald [5pts]: e: ask
holmes about ash: s: take lamp: e: s: s: s: s: se: open blue
bottle: drop crayon: drop pacquet: take cotton balls: put cotton
in ears: u: {wait, bell has to ring at least twice}: take
sapphire: look: take sapphire: [5pts]: d: take cotton: drop it:
drop telescope and matchbook: nw: n: n: ne: e: s: enter boat:
lift anchor: put oar in oarlock: launch boat: look: look:
{sound}: drop anchor: look up: take clump off moss {can't reach 
it? Wait for high tide, saturday 8:38 pm for example}: take
clump: [5pts]: lift anchor: row w: again: n: drop anchor: exit
boat: {what would you do, if it was your boat?}: e: e: n: nw: nw:
x urchin: wiggins, steal keys: give shilling to wiggins: wiggins,
steal keys [1pts]: show ruby to holmes [1pts]: x ruby with glass:
x opal with glass: x emerald with glass {wear a carnation;
password: swordfish; 20/6/87}: x sapphire with glass {2:00 am}:
n: offer ruby,emerald,opal,sapphire to guard: [3pts]: n: x vault
door: wear ss: listen to dial: turn dial right: again: turn dial
left: turn dial right: again: {whirr=right direction,
clunk=wrong, click=turn other way}: [3pts]: {banking: fire-
conquerer = 1666-1066 = 600, king william street, the monument!}:
unlock 600 with master key: take topaz [5pts]: e: take ss off: s:
w: w: s: s: sw: w: {Holmes gave you the ring in case sth
happened!}: ask butler about mycroft: give ring to butler [1pts]:
{read carefully, the password mycroft gives you is random!: eg
Seymour, Boleyn, Howard, Cleves}: e: ne: e: s: e (5x): guard,
PASSWORD {say the password from mycroft!}: [3pts]: n: n: se: u:
take mace [1pts]: d: nw: ne: x keg: hit bung with mace: look into
keg: take garnet: wiggins, take garnet [5pts]: x garnet with
glass {give me to Akbar}: sw: drop mace: e: d: wear armour
{sound}: u: w: s: s: s: take paddle [1pts]: pull chain [1pts]:
take armour off: s: enter boat: lift anchor: launch boat: paddle
w: again (2x): n: drop paddle {gag: don't drop the paddle and
exit boat}: drop anchor: exit boat: e: e: d: wait until 2 am:
wait: wait until 2 am {monday! 20/6/87}: w: proprietor, swordfish
{password on jewel!}: give garnet to Akbar [5pts]: ask professor
about jewels: take hat off: take ampoule: hold breath: break
ampoule: untie holmes: tie moriarty: tie akbar: take whistle:
take key: take jewels: [10pts]: unlock door with key: open door:
n: hail hansom cab with whistle [5pts]: enter cab: buckingham
palace: exit cab: give jewels to guard {sound!} [1pts]

100 points out of 100, ranking CONSULTING DETECTIVE

"Well done, my dear Watson......"
