The Hobbit was a bestseller in the UK, and won the 1983 Golden Joystick
Award for best strategy game. The game was also a huge commercial
success, selling over 100,000 copies in its first two years. There are
no records of sales figures but in an article from March 1985 it was
estimated in the range of 100,000 to 200,000 and a figure of 500,000
copies is possible, making it an "excellent candidate for the
bestselling text adventure of all time, challenged, if at all, only by
Infocomâ€™s Zork I". The use of images on many of the locations as opposed
to mostly text-only adventure games of the time, the flexibility of the
Inglish parser, the innovative independence of the non-player
characters, the popularity of Tolkien's work, all attributed to the
game's phenomenal success.


The Hobbit parser was very advanced for the time and used a subset of
English called Inglish. When it was released most adventure games used
simple verb-noun parsers (allowing for simple phrases like 'get lamp'),
but Inglish allowed one to type advanced sentences such as "ask Gandalf
about the curious map then take sword and kill troll with it". The
parser was complex and intuitive, introducing pronouns, adverbs
("viciously attack the goblin"), punctuation and prepositions and
allowing the player to interact with the game world in ways not
previously possible.

The game has an innovative text-based physics system, developed by
Veronika Megler. Objects, including the characters in the game, have a
calculated size, weight, and solidity. Objects can be placed inside
other objects, attached together with rope and damaged or broken. If the
main character is sitting in a barrel and this barrel is then picked up
and thrown through a trapdoor, the player would go through.

Unlike other works of interactive fiction, the game is also in real
time, insofar as a period of idleness causes the "WAIT" command to be
automatically invoked and the possibility of events occurring as a
result. This can be suppressed by entering the "PAUSE" command, which
stops all events until a key is pressed.

The game has a cast of non-player characters (NPCs) entirely independent
of the player and bound to precisely the same game rules. They have
loyalties, strengths, and personalities that affect their behaviour and
cannot always be predicted. The character of Gandalf, for example, would
roam freely around the game world (some fifty locations), picking up
objects, getting into fights and being captured.

The volatility of the characters, coupled with the rich physics and
impossible-to-predict fighting system, enabled the game to be played in
many different ways, though this would also lead to problems (such as an
important character being killed early on). There are numerous possible
solutions and with hindsight, the game might be regarded as one of the
first examples of emergent gameplay. This also resulted, however, in
many bugs; for example, during development Megler found that the animal
NPCs killed each other before the player arrived. The game's
documentation warned that "Due to the immense size and complexity of
this game it is impossible to guarantee that it will ever be completely
error-free". Melbourne House issued a version 1.1 with some fixes, but
with another bug that resulted in the game being unwinnable, forcing it
to release version 1.2, and the company never fixed all bugs.


