LEATHER GODDESSES OF PHOBOS

Joe's Bar, Upper Sandusky, Ohio, Earth

You begin the game in this, er, fine establishment. The urge you feel is
the urge to urinate. Pick one of the bathrooms (women northeast, men
northwest); this will determine your character's sex for the game.
Relieve yourself. Check out the smell. You don't need to take the stool.
In a move or two, you'll be whisked away toâ€¦

For Your Amusement: Don't go to the bathroom. (Save first - not that it
matters this close to the start of the game.) Buy a beer. Play as a man
if you are a woman, or vice versa. After selecting one bathroom, try
entering the other. Urinate somewhere other than in the toilet (e.g.,
the sink). Flush the toilet. Try to eat the pizza. Then vomit.


Phobos: the Prison Area

Smell the smell. Take everything. (The tray is a container; it's
currently holding only the chocolate, but it can hold more.) Open the
door and go south to End of Hallway. Open the narrow cell door and go
south again to Other Cell. The paper that's here provides a clue to a
puzzle that this walkthrough simply tells you the answer to, so you can
ignore it. Say hello to Trent/Tiffany (hereafter referred to as "T"),
then ask xir to follow you.

At some point in the near future, T will give you a matchbook and tell
you xe has a plan to defeat the Leather Goddesses. When xe does so, read
the matchbook. The names of the items written on the matchbook in can be
found in the "meaningless matrix of letters" on the paper from T's cell,
which is actually a word search. After finding all the words, reading
the remaining uncircled letters backwards spells a message, "hissing
frightens flytraps". That is the bit of knowledge you need to have, so
whenever xe gives you the matchbook, you can drop it.

Go north, then up, and north to the Closet. Smell the smell, and turn on
the flashlight. Climb on T and you will get the objects from the shelf.
Put everything you're holding into the basket, then stand on the circle
in the corner of the closet.

For Your Amusement: Knock on the door of T's cell before opening it.
Lead T into your own cell. (Try in all three naughtiness levels.) Call
Trent "Tiffany" (or vice versa). Walk west in the Observation Room. Jump
off the prison roof.


Venus

As hinted from the word search, hiss to do away with the flytrap. (The
alternate solution is to go to Cleveland first, collect the sack of
leaves from the lawn and the trellis from the garden, and build a trap
over the pit at Fork (of Sorts), two screens east of here.) Go west to
the Spawning Ground and get the ointment. Go east three times to the
Clearing and get the stain. Go northeast, then east to the Rocky
Clifftop. Ignore the Vizicomm booth for now. Go north to the house's
Back Door. Offer the salesman your flashlight. Get the machine. Open the
machine, put the jar of ointment in it, then close it and turn it on.
Open the machine again and voila, untangling cream has become
"unangling" cream. Take the cream. Though the odd machine can be fun,
you don't need it for anything else, so drop it.

For Your Amusement: Get into the hole at Fork (of Sorts) while being
chased by the flytrap. Try pushing T into the hole. Get into the pit
after trapping the flytrap there. Ask T about the odd machine. Use the
tray in the odd machine, then examine it.

Knock on the door. Go downstairs to the Laboratory. Put the chocolate in
the gorilla cage. Wait two turns while the mad scientist straps you and
T down to slabs and throws the switch. Once you are a gorilla, show some
sexual interest in the other gorilla (such as kiss gorilla), and the mad
scientist will leave. Get the chocolate, eat it, and then bend the bars
of the cage. Get the hose, then get out of the cage. Drop the hose,
untie yourself, and then flip the switch. Stand up and get the hose.
Stand on the black circle. You appear in the Vizicomm booth. Turn the
knob, look in the coin return box, and get the coin. Leave the booth and
stand on the black circle at the cliff-top.

For Your Amusement: While a gorilla: examine yourself; diagnose; examine
the bodies on the slab; leave the Laboratory. Whip someone with the
rubber hose (not in TAME mode).


Mars: King Mitre's Castle and the Canal

Go south into the Throne Room of the ruined castle. Put the unangling
cream on the princess. Take the eighty-two-degree angle. Drop the cream
(it's actually empty now). Go south, south, west, and northwest to
Hickory & Dickory Dock. Show the painting to the mouse. Take the mouse
and put it in the basket. Drop the painting. Go south, east, and north
three times to the Royal Docks. Enter the barge. Examine the controls.
Read each of the buttons. Press the purple button to turn on the
engines, then press the orange button to leave the dock. Press the
orange button again so you will automatically dock at the next dock you
pass.

Wait three turns until you arrive at Baby Dock. Leave the barge. Go
north and get the lip balm and coded message from the dead alien. Read
the coded message. It is not only displacement-encoded but also
reversed, and translates to "Your mission is to contact wife [husband]
number ### of the Sultan[ess] and get the secret map. Identify yourself
to her [him] by asking her [him] to kiss your kneecaps." Make a note of
the number (make sure you've got it the proper way around). Drop the
message.

Return south, re-enter the barge, and press the orange button. Wait a
turn before you press it again (or you will immediately dock at Donald
Dock). Continue to wait one turn, until you've gone around the bend
(you're playing an Infocom game, so that shouldn't take too long!), and
you will dock at Now THIS is My Kind of Dock.

For Your Amusement: Give something to King Mitre. Put the unangling
cream on the pile of angles, and on King Mitre. Examine Princess Theta
after unangling her. Marry Princess Theta, both before and after
unangling her. Shake King Mitre's hand. Click the mouse. Smell the
barge. Sink the barge. Examine, awaken, put the lip balm on, and kiss
the dead alien messenger.


Mars: The Sultan(ess)'s Palace

Leave the barge. Go east twice, then north into the Audience Chamber.
Tell the Sultan(ess) you are ready (yes will suffice), then answer the
riddle with say "riddle". Try to go west into the harem. Ask for the
husband/wife whose number you discovered in the message (you can just
type the number, e.g. 153). Continue west into the harem. Smell the
smell. Wait one turn for the husband/wife you chose to arrive. Identify
yourself to xir - ask [him/her] to kiss my kneecaps. Kiss xir or have
sex if you like. Then get the map and torch. Put everything into the
wicker basket. Save the game and go down into the Catacombs.

For Your Amusement: Wait instead of answering "yes" when the
Sultan/Sultaness asks if you're ready for the riddle. Wait instead of
answering the riddle right away. Show the dead alien's coded message to
the Sultan/Sultaness. Save in the Audience Chamber before answering the
riddle. Ask the harem guard for a different number than the correct
number. Try several times. Ask the harem guard for the same number twice
in a row. Address the wife/husband by a wrong number. Thank the
wife/husband after getting the torch and map. Return from the Inner
Harem to the Harem holding the map, after the wife/husband warns you not
to do that. Measure the Sultan's wife, and the Sultaness' husband (in
all three naughtiness levels). Make love to the wife/husband a second
time (not in TAME mode).

According to the comic book that came with the game, there are three
actions you must take at certain intervals to scare off various
undesirable critters in the catacombs. In the Solid Gold release of the
game, you can type $CATACOMB to skip the maze. In other releases, the
following is one possible sequence of moves to get what you need from
the catacombs and get out alive: NW. N. NE. E. CLAP. NE. NE. SE. HOP.
CLAP. KWEEPA. D. NW. NE. CLAP. N. S. HOP. NE. CLAP. U. KWEEPA. NW. GET
BOOK (this is the Cleveland phone book). CLAP. NW. HOP. S. SE. CLAP. SE.
D. KWEEPA. NE. CLAP. HOP. W. E. W. CLAP. SW. SW. KWEEPA. HOP. CLAP. GET
RAFT. N. NE. E. CLAP. NW. N. UP.

For Your Amusement: Try to move around in the Catacombs without a light.
Read the Cleveland phone book.

You emerge in the Laundry Room. Drop the torch and map and get the pin
(i.e. clothespin, but if you say "clothespin" the game assumes your
clothes, that is, the brass loincloth or bikini). Go north and west to
Now THIS Is My Kind of Dock. Do not enter the barge this time. Read the
purple button to make sure the engines are on, then press the orange
button. The barge will sail off on its own.

Meanwhile, go east twice to the Oriental Garden. Wait 8 more turns to
give the barge time to reach the southern terminus of the canal, and
then go down the well. You will be transported to the royal barge, which
is now at the Icy Dock. (If you don't do it this way, you pass through
an ion beam as you sail down the canal, and will sicken and die from the
radiation.)

For Your Amusement: Use the odd machine on the raft and then put the
raft in the canal. Deflate the raft. Try while it's in the water. Try
while it's in the water, and you're in it. Have sex with someone while
irradiated from the ion beam.


Mars: the South Pole

Exit the royal barge (well gee, isn't that event a surprise), go south,
then southeast to Penguin Park. Read the sign the penguin is holding,
then give him the coin. You will get one marsmid in return. Go southeast
again to the Gypsy Camp. Enter the tent, get the orphaned baby, and wrap
it in the blanket. Do an inventory. Take everything out of the basket,
then put the baby in it (you will need to juggle items a bit - don't
drop the mouse!).

Leave the tent, then go south to the South Pole. Read the sign, put the
baby on the doorstep, and wait two turns. After the matron takes the
baby, open the door and enter the igloo. Get the cotton balls and leave.
Go north, northwest, and west to the Allusion Room. Stand on the circle
and you will be transported to Wattz-Upp Dock. Go west to the Oasis.
Pour the stain on the white circle. Drop the can of stain. Stand on the
now-black circle. AAAUGH!! NO!! YOU'RE INâ€¦

For Your Amusement: Talk to the robot baby. Kiss or rock the robot baby
while it's crying. Suckle the robot baby (as both male and female). Toss
the robot baby into the canal. Run the cotton balls through the odd
machine, then examine them. Use the odd machine on the rabbit. Put the
raft in the Oasis.


Cleveland (and a quick stop on Phobos)

Go south to the Lawn, get the sack, open it, and drop the leaves. Put
your belongings in the sack. Go back north, then northeast into the
Teensy-Weensy House. Go up to the Bedroom. Look out the window. A 1933
Ford with a loose headlight, eh? Get the sheet and rip it. Make rope
with sheet. Tie the rope to the bed. Throw the rope out the window. Wait
while T goes down to fetch the headlight. Wait one more turn while T
miraculously survives death yet again. Get the headlight. Go down stairs
and east into the Garden. Roll up the sod to reveal a black circle, and
stand on it. ("HELP!!! How can I get out of Cleveland?" "Millions ask
this question daily.") We're back in the prison area, but we're only
here shortly: we're headed back to Mars. Go up twice to the roof and
stand on the black circle there.


Mars Again

Go east to Yet Another Ruin. My, what a cute frog! Wouldn't you like to
kiss it? Go ahead, but first put the pin on your nose, cotton balls in
your ears, lip balm on your lips, and close your eyes. Get the blender
that's left behind, and remove the clothes pin, lip balm and cotton
balls. Go west, west, and northwest to Hickory & Dickory Dock. The raft
is already inflated, so put it in the water and get in. Wait eight
turns. Grab the southern dock (it's Donald Dock). You automatically take
the raft out of the water, so you can leave it here for now.

Go south, east, and south to the Exit Shop. Give the coin to the
proprietor. Search the dust. Open the tube. Get the circle. Drop the
tube. (This circle is a portable exit, but as it leads to the end of the
game, we're not going there just yet.) Go back north, west, and north to
Donald Dock. Get the raft and put it in the water. Get in the raft and
drift further downstream. Wait eight turns. In the canal location with
the buoy, grab the dock - it's Wattz-Upp Dock.

For Your Amusement: Touch the frog. Ask T to kiss the frog. Give the
flexible black circle back to the proprietor. Take or open the buoy.


Annoying One-Way Circles

You can now leave the raft behind for good. Go west to the Oasis and
stand on the circle. (Oh Lord, stuck in Cleveland again. Surely that's
as bad as Lodi, right?) Go northeast and east to the circle in the
Garden and stand on it. From End of Hallway, go up, then north into the
closet and stand on its circle. On Venus again, go west to the Spawning
Ground and stand on the circle there - it's almost the only one we
haven't been through yet. (The others are the one in the deserts of Mars
near King Mitre's castle that we never use, and one in the spaceship
we're about to be on that obviously we haven't seen yet.)


Spaceship, Near Saturn

Oh dear, did T get killed again? How sad. Get the sword. Go south to the
stable. Mount the stallion. Go west. Dismount. Get the suit and wear it.
Open the hatch and go out. Smell the "foul odor." Attack
Thorbast/Thorbala repeatedly. When you knock xir sword out of xir hands,
grab it, and then give his/her sword back. Kill the monster, then untie
the young man/woman.

Go north into the Yacht. After getting the photograph, open the door and
go east into the private cabin. Afterwards, go south twice to return to
the hatch and meet up with T again. Get on the stallion and return east
to the stable. Dismount, then go west three times. Stand on the circle.
Now that you're somewhere with gravity again, you can use that flexible
black circle! Drop it, then stand on it.

For Your Amusement: Screw the stallion. Go into space from the
battleship without putting on the white suit. Tell Elysium/Elysia to
shut up while he/she is screaming. Read the photo that Elysia/Elysium
gives you.


Phobos: the Boudoir of the Leather Goddesses

Smell the smell, and fool around if you like. But soon, it's over, and
the endgame is on. Hand T the items xe asks for, immediately as xe asks
for them. There's no time to look, do inventory, or anything else. On
the very last turn there's one more smell to smell - and
congratulations, you've defeated the vile (?) Leather Goddesses of
Phobos!

For Your Amusement: Kiss the Leather Goddess while T is also in the
Boudoir (not in TAME mode). Get fresh with the Leather Goddess in the
Boudoir in TAME mode. Get to the end of the Plaza scene without T
present. (Be sure to get the stool in the bar. Don't fetch T at the
start of the game. Skip the spaceship scene, since you can't enter it
without being killed.) Get to the end of the Plaza scene without giving
all of the eight parts to T.

For Your Amusement at various times: Ask various characters about the
Leather Goddesses, such as Trent/Tiffany, the salesman, the mad
scientist, Thorbast/Thorbala, Elysia/Elysium, King Mitre, Princess
Theta, the Sultan/Sultaness, the wife/husband, the Exit Shop proprietorâ€¦
Put the blanket, sheet, or sack on your head. Open your mouth. Give an
age less than 5 while trying to enter LEWD mode. Try an impossibly high
age, like 200. Use swear words in your inputs while in TAME mode. Look
with your eyes closed and with your hands over your eyes. Look through
something that isn't transparent. Look inside your overalls, loincloth,
or bikini. Measure yourself. (Try these in all three naughtiness modes.)
Touch, examine, or put something on one of the black circles. Type
CTRL-B and press Enter.